## 分布式锁



## RocketMQ 的细节



## 使用验证码技术来防止恶意刷单以达到限流的目的。



## InnoDB 的优点和MyISAM 的特点

**The main differences between INNODB and MYISAM**

The most commonly used storage engine in MySQL are MyISAM and InnoDB.

With these storage engine there are some advantages and disadvantages according to application needs.

As you all know, the default storage engine chosen by MySQL database is InnoDB.

The main difference between MyISAM and INNODB are:

* MyISAM does not support **transactions** by tables while InnoDB supports.
* There are no possibility of **row-level locking**, relational integrity in MyISAM but with InnoDB this is possible. 
* InnoDB does not support FULLTEXT index while MyISAM supports.
* Performance speed of MyISAM table is much higher as compared with tables in InnoDB.
* InnoDB is better option while you are dealing with larger database because it supports transactions, volume while MyISAM is suitable for small project.
* As InnoDB supports row-level locking which means inserting and updating is much faster as compared with MyISAM. 
* InnoDB **supports ACID** (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability) property while MyISAM does not support.
* In InnoDB table, AUTO_INCREMENT field is a part of index.
* Once table in InnoDB is deleted then it can not re-establish.
* InnoDB does not save data as table level so while implementation of `select count(*) from table`  will again scan the whole table to calculate the number of rows while **MyISAM save data as table level so you can easily read out the saved row number.**
* MyISAM does not support FOREIGN-KEY referential-integrity constraints while InnoDB supports.

---

**MyISAM:**

1. MyISAM supports **Table-level Locking**;
2. MyISAM designed for **need of speed**;
3. MyISAM **does not support foreign keys** hence we call MySQL with MyISAM is DBMS.
4. **MyISAM stores its tables, data and indexes in diskspace using separate three different files.** (tablename.FRM, tablename.MYD, tablename.MYI);
5. **MyISAM not supports transaction.** You cannot commit and rollback with MyISAM. Once you issue a command it's done.
6. You can use MyISAM, if the table is more static with lots of select and less update and delete.

**InnoDB:**

1. InnoDB supports **Row-level Locking**;
2. InnoDB designed for **maximum performance when processing high volume of data**;
3. InnoDB support **foreign keys** hence we call MySQL with InnoDB is RDBMS;
4. **InnoDB stores its tables and indexes in a tablespace**;
5. InnoDB supports **transaction**. You can commit and rollback with InnoDB.



## 为什么使用 SpringBoot



## 热Key的问题，Redis 集群，数据进行分片，但热点数据都集中在一片，如何解决。



